docs/usage.rst, before:

========
Usage
========

To use django-templation in a project


Django settings
------------------



Minimal Django configuration
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

.. code-block :: python


    INSTALLED_APPS = [
        'templation.builtins',
        "django.contrib.sessions",
        "django.contrib.auth",
        "django.contrib.contenttypes",
        "django.contrib.staticfiles",
        "django.contrib.sites",
        "templation",
    ]

    TEMPLATE_LOADERS = (
        'templation.loaders.TemplationLoader',
        'django.template.loaders.filesystem.Loader',
        'django.template.loaders.app_directories.Loader'
    )

    MIDDLEWARE_CLASSES = (
        'django.middleware.common.CommonMiddleware',
        'django.contrib.sessions.middleware.SessionMiddleware',
        'django.middleware.csrf.CsrfViewMiddleware',
        'django.contrib.auth.middleware.AuthenticationMiddleware',
        'django.contrib.messages.middleware.MessageMiddleware',
        'templation.middleware.TemplationMiddleware',
    )

    TEMPLATION_BOILERPLATE_FOLDER = '/path/to/boilerplate/folder/'
    TEMPLATION_DAV_ROOT = '/path/to/webdav/folder/'
    TEMPLATION_DAV_STATIC_URL = '/templationdav/'  # URL to bind templation statics
    TEMPLATION_RESOURCE_MODEL = 'yourapp.models.MyResource'


Settings in detail
++++++++++++++++++


====================================  =================================================  ==========  ========================================================================
Setting name                             Default value                                    Required    Description
====================================  =================================================  ==========  ========================================================================
`TEMPLATION_DAV_ROOT`                      \                                               Yes       Defines the root path of *WebDAV* folder where designers will
                                                                                                     edit templates and static files.
`TEMPLATION_DAV_STATIC_URL`                \                                               Yes       Defines the root url to access custom static files, it acts the
                                                                                                     same way as Django's `STATIC_URL`, but only for `django-templation`.
`TEMPLATION_RESOURCE_MODEL`                \                                               Yes       The model that represents the *tenant*, templates will be bound
                                                                                                     to it.
`TEMPLATION_PROVIDER_NAME`                 `'templation'`                                  No        Provider name for WebDAV server. It also acts as the root url to
                                                                                                     access WebDAV folders.
`TEMPLATION_BOILERPLATE_FOLDER`            `None`                                          No        Path to the folder containing the initial data for WebDAV shared
                                                                                                     folders.
`TEMPLATION_BOILERPLATE_INITIALIZER`     `'templation.models.copy_boilerplate_folder'`     No        Path to a Python callable that will be executed when resource access
                                                                                                     object is created for the first time.
`TEMPLATION_DUMP_EXCEPTION`           `('TemplateDoesNotExist', 'TemplateSyntaxError')`    No        Iterable of exception names that will be shown to the designers.
`TEMPLATION_SECRET_KEY`                `SECRET_KEY`                                        No        `SECRET_KEY` used to generate access tokens.
`TEMPLATION_SANDBOX`                   `False`                                             No        Activate sandbox environment for templates. Only whitelisted tags and
                                                                                                     filters will be available.
`TEMPLATION_WHITELIST_TAGS`            `DEFAULT_WHITELIST_TAGS`                            No        Safe template tags for sandbox.
`TEMPLATION_WHITELIST_FILTERS`         `DEFAULT_WHITELIST_FILTERS`                         No        Safe template filters for sandbox.
`TEMPLATION_EXTRA_LIBRARIES`           `DEFAULT_EXTRA_LIBRARIES`                           No        Preloaded tags and filters for sandbox.
====================================  =================================================  ==========  ========================================================================


DEFAULT_WHITELIST_TAGS
``````````````````````

.. code-block:: python

    DEFAULT_WHITELIST_TAGS = [
        'comment', 'csrf_token', 'cycle', 'filter', 'firstof', 'for', 'if',
        'ifchanged', 'now', 'regroup', 'spaceless', 'templatetag', 'url',
        'widthratio', 'with', 'extends', 'include', 'block'
    ]


DEFAULT_WHITELIST_FILTERS
`````````````````````````

.. code-block:: python

    DEFAULT_WHITELIST_FILTERS = [
        'add', 'addslashes', 'capfirst', 'center', 'cut', 'date', 'default',
        'default_if_none', 'dictsort', 'dictsortreversed', 'divisibleby', 'escape',
        'escapejs', 'filesizeformat', 'first', 'fix_ampersands', 'floatformat',
        'force_escape', 'get_digit', 'iriencode', 'join', 'last', 'length', 'length_is',
        'linebreaks', 'linebreaksbr', 'linenumbers', 'ljust', 'lower', 'make_list',
        'phone2numeric', 'pluralize', 'pprint', 'random', 'removetags', 'rjust', 'safe',
        'safeseq', 'slice', 'slugify', 'stringformat', 'striptags', 'time', 'timesince',
        'timeuntil', 'title', 'truncatewords', 'truncatewords_html', 'unordered_list',
        'upper', 'urlencode', 'urlize', 'urlizetrunc', 'wordcount', 'wordwrap', 'yesno'
    ]


DEFAULT_EXTRA_LIBRARIES
```````````````````````

.. code-block:: python

    DEFAULT_EXTRA_LIBRARIES = [
        'templation.templatetags.templation_tags',
    ]


Serving static content
-----------------------

`TEMPLATION_DAV_STATIC_URL` defines the URL which serves customized statics. You need to
configure your web server (like NGINX) to serve this files properly

.. code-block :: nginx

    server {
        listen 8080;

        location ~ ^/templationdav/(\d+)/(.*)$ {
            alias /your/davroot/$1/static/$2;
        }

        location /static/ {
            alias /your/static/path/;
        }

        location / {
            include uwsgi_params;
            uwsgi_pass 127.0.0.1:3031;
            uwsgi_param    SCRIPT_NAME '';
        }
    }
    


Customizations
------------------

Resource Model
+++++++++++++++++++

The *Resource Model* can be any Django model.


Resource Access Model
++++++++++++++++++++++

*Resource Access Model* controls when 'development' templates and static files are shown. 
**Templation** comes with a default *Resource Access Model* but you can inherit from `AbstractResourceAccess` 
and make your custom one

.. code-block :: python

    from templation.models import AbstractResourceAccess


    class CustomResourceAccess(AbstractResourceAccess):
        """ django-templation """


Restricting template tags and filters
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

You can set up a sandboxed environment for template designers restricting the use of builtin tags and filters
and preloading the desired ones.


In django settings:

.. code-block :: python

    TEMPLATION_SANDBOX = True  # Enables the sandbox mode

    # List of allowed tags
    TEMPLATION_WHITELIST_TAGS = [
        'comment', 'csrf_token', 'cycle', 'filter', 'firstof', 'for', 'if',
        'ifchanged', 'now', 'regroup', 'spaceless', 'templatetag', 'url',
        'widthratio', 'with', 'extends', 'include', 'block'
    ]

    # List of allowed filters
    TEMPLATION_WHITELIST_FILTERS = [
        'add', 'addslashes', 'capfirst', 'center', 'cut', 'date', 'default',
        'default_if_none', 'dictsort', 'dictsortreversed', 'divisibleby', 'escape',
        'escapejs', 'filesizeformat', 'first', 'fix_ampersands', 'floatformat',
        'force_escape', 'get_digit', 'iriencode', 'join', 'last', 'length', 'length_is',
        'linebreaks', 'linebreaksbr', 'linenumbers', 'ljust', 'lower', 'make_list',
        'phone2numeric', 'pluralize', 'pprint', 'random', 'removetags', 'rjust', 'safe',
        'safeseq', 'slice', 'slugify', 'stringformat', 'striptags', 'time', 'timesince',
        'timeuntil', 'title', 'truncatewords', 'truncatewords_html', 'unordered_list',
        'upper', 'urlencode', 'urlize', 'urlizetrunc', 'wordcount', 'wordwrap', 'yesno'
    ]

    # Preloaded tags
    TEMPLATION_EXTRA_LIBRARIES = [
        'yourapp.templatetags.yourapp_tags',
    ]

Commit message:

Improves serving static content section in docs

docs/usage.rst, after:

========
Usage
========

To use django-templation in a project


Django settings
------------------



Minimal Django configuration
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

.. code-block :: python


    INSTALLED_APPS = [
        'templation.builtins',
        "django.contrib.sessions",
        "django.contrib.auth",
        "django.contrib.contenttypes",
        "django.contrib.staticfiles",
        "django.contrib.sites",
        "templation",
    ]

    TEMPLATE_LOADERS = (
        'templation.loaders.TemplationLoader',
        'django.template.loaders.filesystem.Loader',
        'django.template.loaders.app_directories.Loader'
    )

    MIDDLEWARE_CLASSES = (
        'django.middleware.common.CommonMiddleware',
        'django.contrib.sessions.middleware.SessionMiddleware',
        'django.middleware.csrf.CsrfViewMiddleware',
        'django.contrib.auth.middleware.AuthenticationMiddleware',
        'django.contrib.messages.middleware.MessageMiddleware',
        'templation.middleware.TemplationMiddleware',
    )

    TEMPLATION_BOILERPLATE_FOLDER = '/path/to/boilerplate/folder/'
    TEMPLATION_DAV_ROOT = '/path/to/webdav/folder/'
    TEMPLATION_DAV_STATIC_URL = '/templationdav/'  # URL to bind templation statics
    TEMPLATION_RESOURCE_MODEL = 'yourapp.models.MyResource'


Settings in detail
++++++++++++++++++


====================================  =================================================  ==========  ========================================================================
Setting name                             Default value                                    Required    Description
====================================  =================================================  ==========  ========================================================================
`TEMPLATION_DAV_ROOT`                      \                                               Yes       Defines the root path of *WebDAV* folder where designers will
                                                                                                     edit templates and static files.
`TEMPLATION_DAV_STATIC_URL`                \                                               Yes       Defines the root url to access custom static files, it acts the
                                                                                                     same way as Django's `STATIC_URL`, but only for `django-templation`.
`TEMPLATION_RESOURCE_MODEL`                \                                               Yes       The model that represents the *tenant*, templates will be bound
                                                                                                     to it.
`TEMPLATION_PROVIDER_NAME`                 `'templation'`                                  No        Provider name for WebDAV server. It also acts as the root url to
                                                                                                     access WebDAV folders.
`TEMPLATION_BOILERPLATE_FOLDER`            `None`                                          No        Path to the folder containing the initial data for WebDAV shared
                                                                                                     folders.
`TEMPLATION_BOILERPLATE_INITIALIZER`     `'templation.models.copy_boilerplate_folder'`     No        Path to a Python callable that will be executed when resource access
                                                                                                     object is created for the first time.
`TEMPLATION_DUMP_EXCEPTION`           `('TemplateDoesNotExist', 'TemplateSyntaxError')`    No        Iterable of exception names that will be shown to the designers.
`TEMPLATION_SECRET_KEY`                `SECRET_KEY`                                        No        `SECRET_KEY` used to generate access tokens.
`TEMPLATION_SANDBOX`                   `False`                                             No        Activate sandbox environment for templates. Only whitelisted tags and
                                                                                                     filters will be available.
`TEMPLATION_WHITELIST_TAGS`            `DEFAULT_WHITELIST_TAGS`                            No        Safe template tags for sandbox.
`TEMPLATION_WHITELIST_FILTERS`         `DEFAULT_WHITELIST_FILTERS`                         No        Safe template filters for sandbox.
`TEMPLATION_EXTRA_LIBRARIES`           `DEFAULT_EXTRA_LIBRARIES`                           No        Preloaded tags and filters for sandbox.
====================================  =================================================  ==========  ========================================================================


DEFAULT_WHITELIST_TAGS
``````````````````````

.. code-block:: python

    DEFAULT_WHITELIST_TAGS = [
        'comment', 'csrf_token', 'cycle', 'filter', 'firstof', 'for', 'if',
        'ifchanged', 'now', 'regroup', 'spaceless', 'templatetag', 'url',
        'widthratio', 'with', 'extends', 'include', 'block'
    ]


DEFAULT_WHITELIST_FILTERS
`````````````````````````

.. code-block:: python

    DEFAULT_WHITELIST_FILTERS = [
        'add', 'addslashes', 'capfirst', 'center', 'cut', 'date', 'default',
        'default_if_none', 'dictsort', 'dictsortreversed', 'divisibleby', 'escape',
        'escapejs', 'filesizeformat', 'first', 'fix_ampersands', 'floatformat',
        'force_escape', 'get_digit', 'iriencode', 'join', 'last', 'length', 'length_is',
        'linebreaks', 'linebreaksbr', 'linenumbers', 'ljust', 'lower', 'make_list',
        'phone2numeric', 'pluralize', 'pprint', 'random', 'removetags', 'rjust', 'safe',
        'safeseq', 'slice', 'slugify', 'stringformat', 'striptags', 'time', 'timesince',
        'timeuntil', 'title', 'truncatewords', 'truncatewords_html', 'unordered_list',
        'upper', 'urlencode', 'urlize', 'urlizetrunc', 'wordcount', 'wordwrap', 'yesno'
    ]


DEFAULT_EXTRA_LIBRARIES
```````````````````````

.. code-block:: python

    DEFAULT_EXTRA_LIBRARIES = [
        'templation.templatetags.templation_tags',
    ]


Serving static content
-----------------------

`TEMPLATION_DAV_STATIC_URL` defines the URL which serves customized statics. You need to
configure your web server (like NGINX) to serve this files properly


In this example `TEMPLATION_DAV_STATIC_URL` is set to `/templationdav/`:

.. code-block :: nginx

    server {
        listen 80;

        location ~ ^/templationdav/(\d+)/(.*)$ {
            alias /your/davroot/$1/static/$2;
        }

        location /static/ {
            alias /your/static/path/;
        }

        location / {
            include uwsgi_params;
            uwsgi_pass 127.0.0.1:3031;
            uwsgi_param    SCRIPT_NAME '';
        }
    }


Static content in development mode
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

To serve templation's static content from development server (`python manage.py runserver`) it is necessary to add `templation_static()` to your url patterns
in your `urls.py`:

.. code-block :: python

    from django.conf.urls import patterns, url, include
    from django.contrib import admin
    from templation.urls import templation_static  # Important line
    from .views import *

    admin.autodiscover()

    urlpatterns = patterns(
        '',
        url(r'^admin/', include(admin.site.urls)),
        url(r'^index/$', index, name='index'),
    ) + templation_static()  # Important line


Customizations
------------------

Resource Model
+++++++++++++++++++

The *Resource Model* can be any Django model.


Resource Access Model
++++++++++++++++++++++

*Resource Access Model* controls when 'development' templates and static files are shown. 
**Templation** comes with a default *Resource Access Model* but you can inherit from `AbstractResourceAccess` 
and make your custom one

.. code-block :: python

    from templation.models import AbstractResourceAccess


    class CustomResourceAccess(AbstractResourceAccess):
        """ django-templation """


Restricting template tags and filters
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

You can set up a sandboxed environment for template designers restricting the use of builtin tags and filters
and preloading the desired ones.


In django settings:

.. code-block :: python

    TEMPLATION_SANDBOX = True  # Enables the sandbox mode

    # List of allowed tags
    TEMPLATION_WHITELIST_TAGS = [
        'comment', 'csrf_token', 'cycle', 'filter', 'firstof', 'for', 'if',
        'ifchanged', 'now', 'regroup', 'spaceless', 'templatetag', 'url',
        'widthratio', 'with', 'extends', 'include', 'block'
    ]

    # List of allowed filters
    TEMPLATION_WHITELIST_FILTERS = [
        'add', 'addslashes', 'capfirst', 'center', 'cut', 'date', 'default',
        'default_if_none', 'dictsort', 'dictsortreversed', 'divisibleby', 'escape',
        'escapejs', 'filesizeformat', 'first', 'fix_ampersands', 'floatformat',
        'force_escape', 'get_digit', 'iriencode', 'join', 'last', 'length', 'length_is',
        'linebreaks', 'linebreaksbr', 'linenumbers', 'ljust', 'lower', 'make_list',
        'phone2numeric', 'pluralize', 'pprint', 'random', 'removetags', 'rjust', 'safe',
        'safeseq', 'slice', 'slugify', 'stringformat', 'striptags', 'time', 'timesince',
        'timeuntil', 'title', 'truncatewords', 'truncatewords_html', 'unordered_list',
        'upper', 'urlencode', 'urlize', 'urlizetrunc', 'wordcount', 'wordwrap', 'yesno'
    ]

    # Preloaded tags
    TEMPLATION_EXTRA_LIBRARIES = [
        'yourapp.templatetags.yourapp_tags',
    ]
